# MyLibrary
### Video Demo:  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OM-jEoRCVIY
### Description:
MyLibrary is an app to keep track of your personal library and reading habits. You can add books you have read, want to read, or are currenly reading and log your reading sessions to track your progress in books.

Users must create an MyLibrary account, including a username and password, to access the app and their own personal library and reading log. Passwords are hashed to ensure security.

MyLibrary incorporates a search function that is linked to Google Books API. When you search for books, the result cards will show a thumbnail of the book, the title, author, page count, and description of the book which will become scrollable if the description becomes too long for the result card. If a thumbnail image is not available, a placeholder image will appear in its place. It will also give you options for previewing the book through Google Books, and purchasing the book in multiple different formats from sources benefiting indie booksellers. Each link will open in a separate tab to prevent losing the page containing your search results. From here, you can add the title to your personal library and begin tracking your reading sessions.

The personal library contains 3 sections: Currently Reading, TBR (To Be Read), and Read. Books in the Currently Reading and TBR section will be listed in alphabetical order by title. Books in the Read section will be listed by Date Read with the most recently read book appearing at the top of the list. Once a title has been added to your library, it will be marked as "Want To Read" by default and appear below the TBR header. The title's status will change as you begin logging reading sessions. Reading sessions are tracked by entering the total number of pages and date you did the reading. Both the pages and date must be input for the log to be successful. Negative and partial page numbers will not be accepted. Page numbers will also need to be greater than the title's currently logged read pages in order to be accepted.

The first reading session logged for a title will move the title from the "To Be Read" table to the "Currently Reading" table. The date selection allows users to log reading that happened on different dates and backlog reading sessions. When a reading session is logged, it will appear in the reading history tab. Reading history is sorted by date with the most recent appearing at the top of the list. This tab will show the title, author, date of reading session, pages read during that session, and the total number of pages read for that title. The user's library homepage will update as reading is logged to show the number of pages out of the total pages in the book and a progress bar that will visually depict the read percentage for the title.

When the total pages read for a title is equal to the total number of pages listed for the book, the book is considered complete, and it will be moved from "Currently Reading" to "Read".